Does the learning rate make
a difference in how long it takes for
your model to train if you have,
let's say, large, large, large data sets?
>> Yeah, so right now,
those two independent,
my current learning rates and
number of steps.
So how long the algorithm will be
running depends on number of steps.
But learning rate defines if we gonna
get to the solution or not at all.
So just to demonstrate, let's say we
initialize with those variables, 0 and
minus 1, right?
But let's say our learning rate is really,
really small.
So what will happen if I just
re-execute this code, right?
So we did 200 steps, but
if we look at the w,
originally it was 0.0 right?
And our b was minus 1.
So if we look after those 200 steps,
our w is
actually changed and our b modified.
And it's kind of going the right
direction, but it's really,
really far from the true values just
because our learning rate is so small.
If I run this code for
five billion trillion [LAUGH] iterations,
it will get to the solution or at least
in the proximity of the solution, right?
The absolute true value is not guaranteed.
But this is really a simple problem, you
can probably just solve it analytically.
But anyway, that's just to demonstrate
what's happening with this,
it has degraded descent.
You're also starting with
some random point, and
just calculating what should be
the direction you need to go.
And you also can control your learning
rates and how fast you're going, and
you might overshoot, right?
So for instance, right now,
if I set learning rate equal to 1,
why not, right?
Well, 10.
If we're overshooting,
let's overshoot big.
So if we execute this code, so
we just ran 200 steps again,
let's just see, we actually over
jump from the dynamic range.
So we got so
huge number is has become none.
[LAUGH] I know.
Let's probably get
learning rate equal to 1.
I'm not sure what's gonna happen,
but we'll see in a second.
Still none, okay.
So it should be probably something 0.9.
And that's the thing,
to some degree, yeah,
it's this negative number in 10,
24th, it's huge.
And just because, yes, for our function,
loss function is basically your hyperbola.
It's hyperbolic function, right?
And what's happening with those learning
rates, you just jumping out of.
And after 200 steps, yeah,
that's why you seen this 10 and
24th power, just because you moving not
closer to the minimum, but actually out.
You choosing the right direction,
you just over jumping significantly.
So back to our original question.
With the number of steps, you control
how many calculations you will do.
But learning rate control how fast or
how slow you're gonna progress.
So it's combination of both.
To get to the solution,
quite often you should start
with some large learning rate.
And there is a method
called one shot learning.
It basically tries different
learning rates, right,
starting with something really,
really small.
So basically, barely moving.
But then, as you progress,
it's seeing that loss function
starts dropping significantly,
meaning that you getting to
the solution pretty fast.
But you continue increasing the learning
rates to even start jumping outside of
the solution.
But this simple exploration will give you
approximately optimal value for
the learning rate.
So when you see the minimum
in the loss function,
if you just take this value,
which you used for the learning rate and
divided by 10, it should give you
an optimal learning rate value.
It basically means that in 10 steps,
you will get kinda to the minimum.
Makes sense?
>> So it gives you the optimal learning
rate for the number of specified steps?
>> Learning rate depends on the problem,
but
you should consider them as
independent hyper parameters.
But you need combination of both
to get to the optimal solution.
>> So in this case, since you've
increased the learning rate to 0.9,
what would you have to do
with the number of steps to
get you closer to-
>> Nothing.
That's the critical
[CROSSTALK] it will never help.
Well, maybe, okay,
maybe reduce the number of steps to 1.
[LAUGH] Let's see if it's help or not.
So if we run this code,
let's see the value.
1.4, 1.7, okay.
It should be 0.1 and 0.5.
So if we increase to 2, so 2 steps,
okay, it was 1.4, it became 0.6.
So we simply kinda jump this way first.
Now, we jumping that way.
And the more steps I will be doing,
the far I will be.
Remember, it was 1.4, now it's 2.
Yep, now it's 3.
It was 1 something previously, I think.
So it's just basically this
jumping out of your well.
So nothing, nothing will help if
your learning rate is too big.
That's why they recommend
to start with smaller.
But as I said, this method I think I
heard about it from author of Fast AI,
Jeremy Hulbert.
Jeremy created the whole
deep learning course and
framework with the same name, Fast dot AI.
And he used this method quite a bit.
So basically, you're starting
with learning rate pretty small,
but on every step,
you just increase it a little bit.
And you're doing that to just find the
optimal learning rate you should use for
your problem.
By plotting a learning
rate versus loss function.
Let's take a closer look at
what we discovered so far.
Actually, this notebook was already
prepared with all the bits in it.
So if you want to play with it on your
own, you can just execute this code.
So it's exactly what we did
generating the noisy data, right?
Plotting the distribution,
playing around a little bit with
other types of visualization.
And once again, kinda creating variables,
the one we will modify
additional functions.
So I just wanted to provide
this example to demonstrate
build the concept of loss function.
So it's a function which is supposed
to represent a how mistaken you are,
and what you can do to
imrove your mistakes, right?
And what we're doing, we're just keeping
track of all the operations we did while
calculating those predictions and
calculating loss functions.
And then, just using gradients
relative to those variables,
which will indicate how
the variables themselves have to be
changed to get to the local
of this loss function.
All right, so
if you want really cool visualization,
it's actually at the end of this notebook.
I've not only plot 2D image,
but the whole 3D right here.
Right here.
We should demonstrate how our
loss function looks in 3D,
so that's actually
the image I'm referring.
So we have weight as 1.
One axis biases the other, and this
whole thing almost look like a saddle.
And we're just getting to the minimum
by just trying all those points and
slowly getting there.